README.md, before:


# Table of Contents:
 [Table of Contents:](#table-of-contents)
- [Table of Contents:](#table-of-contents)
- [I. Prep Work:](#i-prep-work)
  - [A. In the *Timeseries Sheet*](#a-in-the-timeseries-sheet)
    - [IMV Gamma Method:](#imv-gamma-method)
    - [Borselle V Method](#borselle-v-method)
    - [Parkwind Method:](#parkwind-method)
  - [B. In the *Parametric Analysis* sheet:](#b-in-the-parametric-analysis-sheet)
    - [Parameters:](#parameters)
    - [Output 1 (All other methods):](#output-1-all-other-methods)
    - [Output 2 (Borselle V Method):](#output-2-borselle-v-method)
- [II. Launching the app:](#ii-launching-the-app)
  - [Via Python](#via-python)
  - [Using the provided executables (RECOMMENDED)](#using-the-provided-executables-recommended)
  - [Compiling it yourself](#compiling-it-yourself)
    - [On Windows (RECOMMENDED)](#on-windows-recommended)
    - [On MacOS/Linux (RECOMMENDED)](#on-macoslinux-recommended)
    - [On any platform](#on-any-platform)
      - [Using Python](#using-python)
      - [Using Make](#using-make)
- [III. Explaining the source code:](#iii-explaining-the-source-code)
  - [A. File Structure (folder by folder):](#a-file-structure-folder-by-folder)
    - [Src](#src)
    - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Libs](#libs)
    - [Methods](#methods)
    - [Modify](#modify)
  - [B. The Business Case Logic:](#b-the-business-case-logic)
- [IV. Further development (ex: adding new Business Cases):](#iv-further-development-ex-adding-new-business-cases)
  - [1. Preparing the environment](#1-preparing-the-environment)
  - [2. Write your new code](#2-write-your-new-code)
    - [New Business Case](#new-business-case)
  - [3. Add references to the new stuff in the old code](#3-add-references-to-the-new-stuff-in-the-old-code)
  - [4. Recompile](#4-recompile)





# I. Prep Work:

Make sure that your excel sheets are correctly labeled (the code will crash if there are spelling mistakes)

Make sure that your Timeseries sheet and Parametric Analysis sheets have the same columns as the **IMV Gamma Case**, *or* **Borssele V** *or* **Parkwind Bus Case**. If not, modify the code accordingly. 

Below you will find a list of all columns that are needed/can be put (I will anotate with **OPT** the one that you should only put if you are doing a mixed solar/wind case). The column order is crucial for everything after duration (including duration itself). The method employed for the Borssele V BC has unique columns and the code is written to accomodate for that.

## A. In the *Timeseries Sheet*

### IMV Gamma Method:
+ Date	
+ Time	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Wind Speed [m/s]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]

### Borselle V Method
+ Date	
+ Time	
+ Wind Speed [m/s]	
+ Potential Generation [MW]	
+ Actual Generation [MW]	
+ Delta [MW]	
+ (Type A) PPA [MW]	
+ (Type B) Maintenance [MW]	
+ (Type B) Environmental [MW]	
+ (Type A) Utility [MW]	
+ (Type B) Owner Stops [MW]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]	
+ Generation Constraint [MW]	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]


### Parkwind Method:
+ Starting Time	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Belwind (181MW)	
+ OOE Production (15MWp) [MW]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]

## B. In the *Parametric Analysis* sheet:
### Parameters:
+ Scenario
+ PPA Price 
+ Market Type 
+ Wind Power (MW)
+ Solar Installed (MWp) (**OPT**)
+ Balancing Market Participation 
+ Storage Power Rating 
+ Duration 
  
### Output 1 (All other methods):
+ Annual Energy Potential	
+ Annual Energy Generated	
+ Annual Energy Exported	
+ Annual Enery Curtailed	
+ Lost to Storage Inefficiency	
+ Still In Storage	
+ Storage CAPEX	
+ Storage OPEX	
+ Baseline Revenue	
+ Revenue Direct Production to Balancing Market [A]
+ Revenue Stored Energy to Balancing Market [B]
+ Revenue Extra Generation-Based Income [C]
+ Revenue with Storage Baseline = [A] + [B] + [C]
+ IRR	
+ NPV

### Output 2 (Borselle V Method):
+ Annual Yield Potential [A]
+ Type B Curtailment [B]	
+ Annual Generation Potential [C] = [A] - [B]	
+ Type A Curtailment [D]	
+ Annual Energy Generated [E] = [C] - [D]	
+ Lost to Storage Inefficiency [F]	
+ Still In Storage [G]	
+ Annual Energy Exported [H] = [E] - [F] - [G]
+ Storage CAPEX	
+ Storage OPEX	
+ Baseline Revenue	
+ Revenue Direct Production to Balancing Market [A]
+ Revenue Stored Energy to Balancing Market [B]
+ Revenue Extra Generation-Based Income [C]
+ Revenue with Storage Baseline = [A] + [B] + [C]
+ IRR	
+ NPV



# II. Launching the app:

## Via Python


Check the [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) file for information on the packages needed to run the code. 
The code's entry point is src/main.py so you simply need to run that file to get started (however you need to make sure you have installed all the relevant packages).

You can also run manually:

On windows (run these commands one by one):
```cmd
REM I am using py here but use whatever the name of you python command is for the first line 
py -m venv venv 
.\venv\Scripts\activate
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
python src/main.py
```

On MacOS/Linux (run these commands one by one):
```sh
python3.x -m venv venv #replace x with your version
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
python src/main.py 
```


## Using the provided executables (RECOMMENDED)

You can simply use the app by going to the **executables** folder and unzipping the relevant folder: [win.zip](executables/win.zip) if you are on Windows, and [unix.zip](executables/unix.zip) if you are on Mac. In the newly unzipped folder you will find the packaged application ready to go!

## Compiling it yourself

This process is a bit more tedious as you may run into unforseen errors. However I did my best to manage as many of the errors as possible 

### On Windows (RECOMMENDED)

Simply launch the [prep.bat](prep.bat) file, either by double clicking it or by running it in the terminal.
The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

### On MacOS/Linux (RECOMMENDED)

Simply launch the [prep.sh](prep.sh) file, either by double clicking it or by running it in the terminal
The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

### On any platform

#### Using Python

On windows (run these commands one by one):
```cmd
py -m venv venv REM or use whtaver the name of your python executable is
.\venv\Scripts\activate
python -m pip install tomlib tomli REM (whichever works)
python -m pip install pyinstaller 
python build.py 
```

On MacOS/Linux (run these commands one by one):
```sh
python3.x -m venv venv #replace x with your version
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install tomlib tomli # whichever works
python -m pip install pyinstaller
python build.py 
```

The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

#### Using Make

Run in the following order:
```shell
make venv
make install
make build
```

The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.


# III. Explaining the source code: 

## A. File Structure (folder by folder):

### Src

This is the main folder where the project's code is stored. 
It is further subdivided into subfolders for more clarity.

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [main.py](src/main.py) | This file is the entrypoint to the app. Just run it to run the app directly  | 
| [tests.py](src/tests.py) | This file allows for testing the functionality defined for the BCA without having to go through the GUI by simply modifying the relevant entries. | 


### Frontend

This folder contains all the python code linked to the frontend and User Interface

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [frontend.py](src/frontend/frontend.py)    |  The core functionality related to the user interface  (There shoud be no need to modify this). |
| [popup.py](src/frontend/popup.py) | A file which contains the code for the progress bar which appears as a popup. It was put into its own file because otherwise I ran into import loops.  | 

### Libs

This folder collects all the miscellaneous functions used throughout the program and useful functionality. 

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [excel.py](src/libs/excel.py) | Contains all functionality which directly interacts and modifies the excel file. |
| [extra.py](src/libs/extra.py)  | A collection of useful functions (Feel free to add functions here if needed).              | 
| [logger.py](src/libs/logger.py) | This file defines and sets up the logger which is used throughout the program to maintain a clear backtrace | 


### Methods

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [bv_method.py](src/methods/bv_method.py) | This file defined the Borssele V method for calculating the business case | 
| [imv_method.py](src/methods/imv_method.py) | This file defines the IMV Gamma method for calculting the business case | 
| [parkwind_method.py](src/methods/parkwind_method.py) | This file defines the Parkwind method for calculating the BC | 
| [general_methods](src/methods/general_method.py) | This file defines the Generalized method for calculating the BC (it requires giving a case type and then tries emulating a given method) | 



### Modify 

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [settings.py](src/modify/settings.py) | This file contains all the freely modifiable settings, in particular the settings for the user interface |
| [plots.py](src/modify/plots.py) | The functions defining the different plots offered to the user. Make sure that every plot defined in here is noted in **AVAILABLE_PLOTS** in the settings file with name and a reference to the function (see prior examples). | 
| [bca_entrypoint.py](src/modify/bca_entrypoint.py) | This file contains the entrypoint into the BC logic. It is here that you need to add the call to your new BC method if you chose to create one | 
| [bca_class.py](src/modify/bca_class.py) | This file contains the class which defines all the class which contains all the relevant variables that are used throughout the BC, feel free to add to it | 

## B. The Business Case Logic:

See the [relevant file](BCA_EXPLANATION.md)

# IV. Further development (ex: adding new Business Cases):

## 1. Preparing the environment 

You need to make sure that you have all the required packages installed. 
You can manually check [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) or execute the [prep.bat](prep.bat) or [prep.sh](prep.sh) file or follow this handy guide:
First you need to create a virtual environment for python to download the packages:
First you need to open a terminal window in your project folder (ex: in the BVA_v1.1 folder), which is normally an option when you right click a folder 
Rplace "py" here with whatever the command for your python is (ex: "py", "python", "python3", "python3.10", "python3.11", "python3.12", "python3.13", "python3.14")
>! Warning: You need a version of python >= 3.10
``` 
py -m venv venv 
```

Now you want to activate this virtual environment:
On Windows:
```cmd
.\venv\Scripts\activate.bat
```

On Mac/Linux:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

Now that your environment is ready you can simply do (this time you HAVE TO write "python" specifically)
```
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
```

This will install the packages.


## 2. Write your new code

Now that your environment is ready, you can freely write code for a new BC method, or a new plot technique.

### New Business Case

Please write write all your new code to its own file named after the BC, and then put the file in the methods subfolder!

A Business_Case class was created to contain all the important variables needed throughout a BC method. 
Currently there is:

*Variables defined before the BC truly begins*:
These variables save all the input from the user interface and make them easily acessible for the BC
**df**: The Timeseries sheet as a pandas DataFrame
**param_df**: The Parametric Analysis sheet as a pandas DataFrame 
**input_values**: The values inputted in the frontend by the user (saved a dictionnary)
**method**: The method being used (annotated with a whole number >= 0)
**case_type**: The current case type (same way of annotating)
**plotting**: A Boolean which when False makes it so that the computed python plots won't show up automatically on screen (but they will still be saved to Downloads/BCA_Plots)
**scenario_list**: A list of all the scenarios the user wants the computer to calculate

*Variables that get defined during the BC*:
**years_covered**: Amount of years covered by the BC 

*Varables defined on a per-scenaio basis that needed to be saved* 
The following variables are defined differently for every scenario, but needed to be saved to this class so that they can be accessed by the plots. 
If you have any other variables which are calculated during the BC logic that you want to keep around and be used by the plots save them here
**power_level**: The power level ?

Please note that ALL business cases should only take as input the Business Case class (defined above) and the scenario index. And should output nothing. So if you need extra inputs from the user interface to be carried over, or want outputs from your functions saved, please add them to this class.

Once you are done writing your code, you must make add a call to your function, locked behind an if statement (True if method == the right number), in the [bca_entrypoint.py](bca)

### New plot function 

Simply write your new function to the [plots](src/modify/plots.py) file and follow some key rules that the first two plots are using:
    - the only inputs should be the business_case class and the scenario_index and debug_mode (even if you don't use it)
Add the following line near the beginning:
```python
 if business_case.plotting:
        # Create a new popup Tkinter window
        popup = tk.Toplevel()
        popup.title(f"Scenario {scenario_name}: Distribution of Charging/Discharging Power")
        popup.geometry("1400x900")

```
This code ensures that the plot will not create a popup if the user chooses to not have the plots popup

And then where you would normally plot.show() write instead:
```python
    if business_case.plotting:
        # Embed the figure in the Tkinter window
        canvas = FigureCanvasTkAgg(fig, master=popup)
        c
        canvas.get_tk_widget().pack(fill=tk.BOTH, expand=True)

    log_print(f"DOP plot displayed in popup for scenario {scenario_name}.")
    save_figure(fig, "dop", scenario_name)
    log_print(f"DOP plot saved for scenario {scenario_name}.")

```

This code fixes issues that occurwhen running matplotlib through a graphical user interface, and ensure the plot will be saved.

Alternatively, if don't want to manually ensure compatibility between your new plot function and the old ones, you can simply give ChatGPT the two old ones, and your new one and tell him to ensure the new one follows the same format as the old ones by following the rules given above.


### Additional entries 

Add your new entry to the INPUT_FIELDS variable following the same format as the other ones. 
If you expect your input to be text based then also add it to the STRING_BASED variable.
You can then acess this input value (and all input values) through the business_case.input_values variable.
Ex: if you add a new value called "Value1" then business_case.input_values["Value1"] will allow you to acess it in your business case.


## 3. Add references to the new stuff in the old code 

To allow your new code to be accessed by the program, you must add references to your newly written functions where relevant.

### New Business Case 

To have your newly written BC be used you must:

1. Go to the [settings][src/modify/settings.py] file and add your method to the CHOICE_MATRIX, following the same format as the prior ones. If your BC is for a new case type you can also add an entry there for the case_type. You can determine the number of your method by simply counting left to right, top to bottom, all the methods in the CHOCIE_MATRIX (make sure you count the firt entry as the 0th).

2. Navigate to the [bca_entrypoint](src/modify/bca_entrypoint.py) file, and there go to the launch_analysis function, and add 
```python
elif business_case.method == x
   log_print("Using method x")
   your_bc_function(business_case, scenario_index)
```

Replace x with the correct number for your business_case 

And done! Normally your new BC should be perfectly accessible.

3. Remarks: if your new BC requires new inputs, or key variable to be carried over between functions or to the plots, make sure to add your inputs to the Business_Case class defined in the [bca_class](src/modify/bca_class.py) and then have the variable be assigned a value in the setup() function of the class or at the beginning of your BC code.  


### New plot function

To have your new plot function be accessed, go to the [settings](src/modify/settings.py) file and in AVAILABLE_PLOTS variable add:
```python
"Plot-name": plot_function_name,
```

And thats it! if you have correctly ensured compatibility with the old plots functions then it should work out of the box. 




## 4. Recompile

Commit message:

01/07/2025 - Updated readme to correspond to refactored code (edits)

README.md, after:


# Table of Contents:
 [Table of Contents:](#table-of-contents)
- [Table of Contents:](#table-of-contents)
- [I. Prep Work:](#i-prep-work)
  - [A. In the *Timeseries Sheet*](#a-in-the-timeseries-sheet)
    - [IMV Gamma Method:](#imv-gamma-method)
    - [Borselle V Method](#borselle-v-method)
    - [Parkwind Method:](#parkwind-method)
  - [B. In the *Parametric Analysis* sheet:](#b-in-the-parametric-analysis-sheet)
    - [Parameters:](#parameters)
    - [Output 1 (All other methods):](#output-1-all-other-methods)
    - [Output 2 (Borselle V Method):](#output-2-borselle-v-method)
- [II. Launching the app:](#ii-launching-the-app)
  - [Via Python](#via-python)
  - [Using the provided executables (RECOMMENDED)](#using-the-provided-executables-recommended)
  - [Compiling it yourself](#compiling-it-yourself)
    - [On Windows (RECOMMENDED)](#on-windows-recommended)
    - [On MacOS/Linux (RECOMMENDED)](#on-macoslinux-recommended)
    - [On any platform](#on-any-platform)
      - [Using Python](#using-python)
      - [Using Make](#using-make)
- [III. Explaining the source code:](#iii-explaining-the-source-code)
  - [A. File Structure (folder by folder):](#a-file-structure-folder-by-folder)
    - [Src](#src)
    - [Frontend](#frontend)
    - [Libs](#libs)
    - [Methods](#methods)
    - [Modify](#modify)
  - [B. The Business Case Logic:](#b-the-business-case-logic)
- [IV. Further development (ex: adding new Business Cases):](#iv-further-development-ex-adding-new-business-cases)
  - [1. Preparing the environment](#1-preparing-the-environment)
  - [2. Write your new code](#2-write-your-new-code)
    - [New Business Case](#new-business-case)
  - [3. Add references to the new stuff in the old code](#3-add-references-to-the-new-stuff-in-the-old-code)
  - [4. Recompile](#4-recompile)





# I. Prep Work:

Make sure that your excel sheets are correctly labeled (the code will crash if there are spelling mistakes)

Make sure that your Timeseries sheet and Parametric Analysis sheets have the same columns as the **IMV Gamma Case**, *or* **Borssele V** *or* **Parkwind Bus Case**. If not, modify the code accordingly. 

Below you will find a list of all columns that are needed/can be put (I will anotate with **OPT** the one that you should only put if you are doing a mixed solar/wind case). The column order is crucial for everything after duration (including duration itself). The method employed for the Borssele V BC has unique columns and the code is written to accomodate for that.

## A. In the *Timeseries Sheet*

### IMV Gamma Method:
+ Date	
+ Time	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Wind Speed [m/s]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]

### Borselle V Method
+ Date	
+ Time	
+ Wind Speed [m/s]	
+ Potential Generation [MW]	
+ Actual Generation [MW]	
+ Delta [MW]	
+ (Type A) PPA [MW]	
+ (Type B) Maintenance [MW]	
+ (Type B) Environmental [MW]	
+ (Type A) Utility [MW]	
+ (Type B) Owner Stops [MW]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]	
+ Generation Constraint [MW]	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]


### Parkwind Method:
+ Starting Time	
+ Day-Ahead Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Imbalance Prices [Euro/MWh]	
+ Belwind (181MW)	
+ OOE Production (15MWp) [MW]	
+ Capacity Constraint [MW]

## B. In the *Parametric Analysis* sheet:
### Parameters:
+ Scenario
+ PPA Price 
+ Market Type 
+ Wind Power (MW)
+ Solar Installed (MWp) (**OPT**)
+ Balancing Market Participation 
+ Storage Power Rating 
+ Duration 
  
### Output 1 (All other methods):
+ Annual Energy Potential	
+ Annual Energy Generated	
+ Annual Energy Exported	
+ Annual Enery Curtailed	
+ Lost to Storage Inefficiency	
+ Still In Storage	
+ Storage CAPEX	
+ Storage OPEX	
+ Baseline Revenue	
+ Revenue Direct Production to Balancing Market [A]
+ Revenue Stored Energy to Balancing Market [B]
+ Revenue Extra Generation-Based Income [C]
+ Revenue with Storage Baseline = [A] + [B] + [C]
+ IRR	
+ NPV

### Output 2 (Borselle V Method):
+ Annual Yield Potential [A]
+ Type B Curtailment [B]	
+ Annual Generation Potential [C] = [A] - [B]	
+ Type A Curtailment [D]	
+ Annual Energy Generated [E] = [C] - [D]	
+ Lost to Storage Inefficiency [F]	
+ Still In Storage [G]	
+ Annual Energy Exported [H] = [E] - [F] - [G]
+ Storage CAPEX	
+ Storage OPEX	
+ Baseline Revenue	
+ Revenue Direct Production to Balancing Market [A]
+ Revenue Stored Energy to Balancing Market [B]
+ Revenue Extra Generation-Based Income [C]
+ Revenue with Storage Baseline = [A] + [B] + [C]
+ IRR	
+ NPV



# II. Launching the app:

## Via Python


Check the [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) file for information on the packages needed to run the code. 
The code's entry point is src/main.py so you simply need to run that file to get started (however you need to make sure you have installed all the relevant packages).

You can also run manually:

On windows (run these commands one by one):
```cmd
REM I am using py here but use whatever the name of you python command is for the first line 
py -m venv venv 
.\venv\Scripts\activate
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
python src/main.py
```

On MacOS/Linux (run these commands one by one):
```sh
python3.x -m venv venv #replace x with your version
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
python src/main.py 
```


## Using the provided executables (RECOMMENDED)

You can simply use the app by going to the **executables** folder and unzipping the relevant folder: [win.zip](executables/win.zip) if you are on Windows, and [unix.zip](executables/unix.zip) if you are on Mac. In the newly unzipped folder you will find the packaged application ready to go!

## Compiling it yourself

This process is a bit more tedious as you may run into unforseen errors. However I did my best to manage as many of the errors as possible 

### On Windows (RECOMMENDED)

Simply launch the [prep.bat](prep.bat) file, either by double clicking it or by running it in the terminal.
The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

### On MacOS/Linux (RECOMMENDED)

Simply launch the [prep.sh](prep.sh) file, either by double clicking it or by running it in the terminal
The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

### On any platform

#### Using Python

On windows (run these commands one by one):
```cmd
py -m venv venv REM or use whtaver the name of your python executable is
.\venv\Scripts\activate
python -m pip install tomlib tomli REM (whichever works)
python -m pip install pyinstaller 
python build.py 
```

On MacOS/Linux (run these commands one by one):
```sh
python3.x -m venv venv #replace x with your version
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install tomlib tomli # whichever works
python -m pip install pyinstaller
python build.py 
```

The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.

#### Using Make

Run in the following order:
```shell
make venv
make install
make build
```

The compiled app wil appear in the dist folder.


# III. Explaining the source code: 

## A. File Structure (folder by folder):

### Src

This is the main folder where the project's code is stored. 
It is further subdivided into subfolders for more clarity.

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [main.py](src/main.py) | This file is the entrypoint to the app. Just run it to run the app directly  | 
| [tests.py](src/tests.py) | This file allows for testing the functionality defined for the BCA without having to go through the GUI by simply modifying the relevant entries. | 


### Frontend

This folder contains all the python code linked to the frontend and User Interface

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [frontend.py](src/frontend/frontend.py)    |  The core functionality related to the user interface  (There shoud be no need to modify this). |
| [popup.py](src/frontend/popup.py) | A file which contains the code for the progress bar which appears as a popup. It was put into its own file because otherwise I ran into import loops.  | 

### Libs

This folder collects all the miscellaneous functions used throughout the program and useful functionality. 

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [excel.py](src/libs/excel.py) | Contains all functionality which directly interacts and modifies the excel file. |
| [extra.py](src/libs/extra.py)  | A collection of useful functions (Feel free to add functions here if needed).              | 
| [logger.py](src/libs/logger.py) | This file defines and sets up the logger which is used throughout the program to maintain a clear backtrace | 


### Methods

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [bv_method.py](src/methods/bv_method.py) | This file defined the Borssele V method for calculating the business case | 
| [imv_method.py](src/methods/imv_method.py) | This file defines the IMV Gamma method for calculting the business case | 
| [parkwind_method.py](src/methods/parkwind_method.py) | This file defines the Parkwind method for calculating the BC | 
| [general_methods](src/methods/general_method.py) | This file defines the Generalized method for calculating the BC (it requires giving a case type and then tries emulating a given method) | 



### Modify 

| File Name |  Purpose | 
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| [settings.py](src/modify/settings.py) | This file contains all the freely modifiable settings, in particular the settings for the user interface |
| [plots.py](src/modify/plots.py) | The functions defining the different plots offered to the user. Make sure that every plot defined in here is noted in **AVAILABLE_PLOTS** in the settings file with name and a reference to the function (see prior examples). | 
| [bca_entrypoint.py](src/modify/bca_entrypoint.py) | This file contains the entrypoint into the BC logic. It is here that you need to add the call to your new BC method if you chose to create one | 
| [bca_class.py](src/modify/bca_class.py) | This file contains the class which defines all the class which contains all the relevant variables that are used throughout the BC, feel free to add to it | 

## B. The Business Case Logic:

See the [relevant file](BCA_EXPLANATION.md)

# IV. Further development (ex: adding new Business Cases):

## 1. Preparing the environment 

You need to make sure that you have all the required packages installed. 
You can manually check [pyproject.toml](pyproject.toml) or execute the [prep.bat](prep.bat) or [prep.sh](prep.sh) file or follow this handy guide:
First you need to create a virtual environment for python to download the packages:
First you need to open a terminal window in your project folder (ex: in the BVA_v1.1 folder), which is normally an option when you right click a folder 
Rplace "py" here with whatever the command for your python is (ex: "py", "python", "python3", "python3.10", "python3.11", "python3.12", "python3.13", "python3.14")
>! Warning: You need a version of python >= 3.10
``` 
py -m venv venv 
```

Now you want to activate this virtual environment:
On Windows:
```cmd
.\venv\Scripts\activate.bat
```

On Mac/Linux:
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

Now that your environment is ready you can simply do (this time you HAVE TO write "python" specifically)
```
python -m pip install ".[all,build]"
```

This will install the packages.


## 2. Write your new code

Now that your environment is ready, you can freely write code for a new BC method, or a new plot technique.

### New Business Case

Please write write all your new code to its own file named after the BC, and then put the file in the methods subfolder!

A Business_Case class was created to contain all the important variables needed throughout a BC method. 
Currently there is:

*Variables defined before the BC truly begins*:
These variables save all the input from the user interface and make them easily acessible for the BC
**df**: The Timeseries sheet as a pandas DataFrame
**param_df**: The Parametric Analysis sheet as a pandas DataFrame 
**input_values**: The values inputted in the frontend by the user (saved a dictionnary)
**method**: The method being used (annotated with a whole number >= 0)
**case_type**: The current case type (same way of annotating)
**plotting**: A Boolean which when False makes it so that the computed python plots won't show up automatically on screen (but they will still be saved to Downloads/BCA_Plots)
**scenario_list**: A list of all the scenarios the user wants the computer to calculate

*Variables that get defined during the BC*:
**years_covered**: Amount of years covered by the BC 

*Varables defined on a per-scenaio basis that needed to be saved* 
The following variables are defined differently for every scenario, but needed to be saved to this class so that they can be accessed by the plots. 
If you have any other variables which are calculated during the BC logic that you want to keep around and be used by the plots save them here
**power_level**: The power level ?

Please note that ALL business cases should only take as input the Business Case class (defined above) and the scenario index. And should output nothing. So if you need extra inputs from the user interface to be carried over, or want outputs from your functions saved, please add them to this class.

Once you are done writing your code, you must make add a call to your function, locked behind an if statement (True if method == the right number), in the [bca_entrypoint.py](bca)

### New plot function 

Simply write your new function to the [plots](src/modify/plots.py) file and follow some key rules that the first two plots are using:
    - the only inputs should be the business_case class and the scenario_index and debug_mode (even if you don't use it)
Add the following line near the beginning:
```python
 if business_case.plotting:
        # Create a new popup Tkinter window
        popup = tk.Toplevel()
        popup.title(f"Scenario {scenario_name}: Distribution of Charging/Discharging Power")
        popup.geometry("1400x900")

```
This code ensures that the plot will not create a popup if the user chooses to not have the plots popup

And then where you would normally plot.show() write instead:
```python
    if business_case.plotting:
        # Embed the figure in the Tkinter window
        canvas = FigureCanvasTkAgg(fig, master=popup)
        c
        canvas.get_tk_widget().pack(fill=tk.BOTH, expand=True)

    log_print(f"DOP plot displayed in popup for scenario {scenario_name}.")
    save_figure(fig, "dop", scenario_name)
    log_print(f"DOP plot saved for scenario {scenario_name}.")

```

This code fixes issues that occurwhen running matplotlib through a graphical user interface, and ensure the plot will be saved.

Alternatively, if don't want to manually ensure compatibility between your new plot function and the old ones, you can simply give ChatGPT the two old ones, and your new one and tell him to ensure the new one follows the same format as the old ones by following the rules given above.


### Additional entries 

Add your new entry to the INPUT_FIELDS variable following the same format as the other ones. 
If you expect your input to be text based then also add it to the STRING_BASED variable.
You can then acess this input value (and all input values) through the business_case.input_values variable.
Ex: if you add a new value called "Value1" then business_case.input_values["Value1"] will allow you to acess it in your business case.


## 3. Add references to the new stuff in the old code 

To allow your new code to be accessed by the program, you must add references to your newly written functions where relevant.

### New Business Case 

To have your newly written BC be used you must:

1. Go to the [settings](src/modify/settings.py) file and add your method to the CHOICE_MATRIX, following the same format as the prior ones. If your BC is for a new case type you can also add an entry there for the case_type. You can determine the number of your method by simply counting left to right, top to bottom, all the methods in the CHOCIE_MATRIX (make sure you count the firt entry as the 0th).

2. Navigate to the [bca_entrypoint](src/modify/bca_entrypoint.py) file, and there go to the launch_analysis function, and add 
```python
elif business_case.method == x
   log_print("Using method x")
   your_bc_function(business_case, scenario_index)
```

Replace x with the correct number for your business_case 

And done! Normally your new BC should be perfectly accessible.

3. Remarks: if your new BC requires new inputs, or key variable to be carried over between functions or to the plots, make sure to add your inputs to the Business_Case class defined in the [bca_class](src/modify/bca_class.py) and then have the variable be assigned a value in the setup() function of the class or at the beginning of your BC code.  


### New plot function

To have your new plot function be accessed, go to the [settings](src/modify/settings.py) file and in AVAILABLE_PLOTS variable add:
```python
"Plot-name": plot_function_name,
```

And thats it! if you have correctly ensured compatibility with the old plots functions then it should work out of the box. 


## 4. Recompile 

Once you have made your changes, and have confirmed that the code is running without any issues (which you can do by running [main.py](src/main.py), you can go ahead and recompile it into a permanenent and portable executable which doesn't require having acess to python and all the required libraries to run. 
To recompille the app either:
    - using python run the [build.py](build.py) file
    - On windows run the [prep.bat](prep.bat) file
    - On MacOS/Linux run the [prep.sh](prep.sh) file
    - If you have make installed you can run ```make build```

Once the app has been compiled it will appear in the dist folder.
